# Android-Mobile-App

I needed to create an app who's purpose was to be used as a warehouse inventory tracker.  It needed to communicate with a database in which not only information for the warehouse items would be stored, but also information concerning the credentials of the warehouse workers.  The app needed to ask for permission to send SMS messages to the phone and needed to allow a user to add, change, and delete records from the database.  
The screens needed are:  a login screen, for logging into the app; a database information screen, for viewing/querying the items in the database; a new item page, for setting all of the fields of a newly added item into the database.  I kept users in mind by asking myself at each step of the way if the layout and organization made sense for a user that would be interacting with the app in the palm of their hand.  
My process was a top down approach.  First I created the screens, conceptualizing how they were going to be interacting iwth eachother and future backend code.  Then I wrote the code that controls and interacts with each screen.  I made sure that I used sensible naming schemes for both my varialbes and my element ids.  This made understanding my past work very easy.  I'll do these same things in my future projects.  I'll make sure I use good names for my variables and also I'll work top down instad of bottom up.  
In testing the code to make sure it's functional, I used the emulator in debug mode so that I could stop at different lines of code and observe the execution in slow motion.  This allowed me to very granularly test the login functionalities, the database retrievals and additions, as well as the SMS messaging permission reqeusts.  
The biggest challenge I faced during my development process was using code to create new rows that were formatted the way they were supposed to be.  Initially, all of my rows would be created only appearing to contain the first of the 5 elements that I added.  I basically had to do many different experiments including removing the first element and observing if I'd see the second elements.  This was done to make sure that even though I couldn't see the last 4 sub elements, they were indeed there.  I also used the rows I created in the visual editor as a comparison for how my rows should be formatted.  
The component from my mobile app where I was successful in demonstrating my knowledge, skills, and experience is again the programmatic adding of the rows that contained information for each item in the database.  That was probably the most challenging part and the part that I'm most proud to have overcome.
